_stories/cracker-jack.md, before:

---
layout: lead-section
title: "Cracker Jack"
permalink: /cracker-jack/
node: cracker-jack
categories: [Food and Drink, Anthologies]
tags:
  - etymology 
  - origin
  - location
  - time
  - narrative
id: cracker-jack
name: Cracker Jack
lat: 41.8781
lng: -87.6298
category: food
description: Classic sweet snack associated with fairs and baseball, originated in Chicago.

---

<!-- _layouts/lead-section pulls _includes/lead-section -->

<!-- OVERVIEW -->
<section class="py-5" id="overview">
  <div class="container col-xxl-8 px-4">
    <h2 class="h4 mb-3">Overview</h2>
      <p class="drop-cap">The term crackerjack followed a distinct geographical and cultural path, starting as a British-derived slang expression before becoming a quintessentially American brand and cultural icon.
      </p>
      <p>Cracker Jack is a brand of molasses-flavored, caramel-coated popcorn
      mixed with peanuts, first introduced in the United States in the late
      19th century. It became culturally significant through its association
      with baseball and popular advertising.
    </p>
  </div>
</section>

<!-- Etimology -->
<section class="py-5" id="short-fiction">
  <div class="container col-xxl-8 px-4">
    <h2 class="h4 mb-4">Etimology</h2>
    <div class="row g-4">
      <div class="col-12 col-lg-6">
        <p>Linguistic Origins (16th–18th Century)</p>
          <p>The word 'crackerjack' is a compound of two much older English elements:
          Crack: Rooted in the Middle English crakken (meaning "to resound"), it evolved by the 1700s into an adjective for "expert" or "superior".
          Jack: A common generic term for a man since the mid-1500s (as in "jack-of-all-trades").
          Together, they initially formed a colloquialism describing a person or thing of "marked excellence".</p>
      </div>
      <div class="col-12 col-lg-6">
      </div>
    </div>
  </div>
</section>

<!-- Origin -->
<section class="py-5" id="short-fiction">
  <div class="container col-xxl-8 px-4">
    <h2 class="h4 mb-4">Origin</h2>
    <div class="row g-4">
      <div class="col-12 col-lg-6">
        <p>The phrase was first documented in America appeared in the Midwest and South as horse racing slang. One of the earliest recorded uses of 'crackerjack' as a slang for top-quality horses was in the Cincinnati Enquirer (1882) and the Nashville Tennessean (1887).
        Chicago World's Fair (1893): The transition from slang to brand happened in Chicago. German immigrant Frederick Rueckheim introduced a molasses-coated popcorn and peanut snack at the World's Columbian Exposition. </p>
        <p>Trademark and Cultural Spread (1896–Present)</p>
        <p>Commercialization (1896): The name "Cracker Jack" was officially trademarked in Chicago after a salesman reportedly tasted the snack and exclaimed, "That's a crackerjack!".
        </p>
      </div>
      <div class="col-12 col-lg-6">
      </div>
    </div>
  </div>
</section>

<!-- Short Fiction -->
<section class="py-5" id="short-fiction">
  <div class="container col-xxl-8 px-4">
    <h2 class="h4 mb-4">Short Fiction</h2>
    <div class="row g-4">
      <div class="col-12 col-lg-6">
        <p class="drop-cap">Well, it’s almost summer and I'm in Chicago for the World's Columbian Exposition, the year is 1893. 
        Black Elk, having survived the Wounded Knee Massacre <em>might</em> be here with Buffalo Bill Cody 
        and his Wild West show. Eadweard Muybridge <em>is</em> here to present a series of lectures on the 
        'Science of Animal Locomotion' in the Zoopraxographical Hall. And Scott Joplin is also in town, 
        introducing audiences to his new marches and jigs.</p>
        <p>Today, I'm fashionably dressed with a new grey coat with covered buttons and matching waistcoat, dark trousers, short turnover shirt collar, and a floppy bow tie. I'm heading east down Lake Street 
        with the smell of horse manure hanging heavy in the air. I’m glad it’s not raining.</p>
        <p>I’m making my way to the first elevated railway built in Chicago, nicknamed the 'Alley L'. The 
        South Side 'L' first opened a year ago and they just extended the line, all the way to 63rd street 
        and Jackson Park. And that's where I'm headed this morning.</p>
      </div>
      <div class="col-12 col-lg-6">
        <p>For a nickel, I will board one of the new wooden cars, and get pulled by a steam locomotive for 
        about 6 miles until I reach the south-west entrance of the World's Columbian Exposition. This trip 
        will take about 30 minutes, I have just enough time to flip through my 'Authentic Visitor's Guide' 
        book and decide where to go first.</p>
        <p>I pay the 50 cent admission fee and step out of the terminus station and onto the Fair grounds. 
        I am greeted with an overwhelming cacophony of music, smells, voices and crowds. The sound of the 
        Columbian Chorus or Orchestra drifts in from the lakefront as I try to ignore the smell of the nearby stock pavilions. Large crowds are in front of me. The first site before me is the Administration building. A 55,000 square foot doomed building, all covered in white stucco.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </div>
</section>

<!-- KEY INFORMATION -->
<section class="py-5" id="key-information">
  <div class="container col-xxl-8 px-4">
    <h2 class="h4 mb-4">Related Entries</h2>
    <ul class="list-inline">
      <li class="list-inline-item">
        <a href="/entries/caramel-popcorn/">Link</a>
      </li>
      <li class="list-inline-item">
        <a href="/entries/baseball-concessions/">Link</a>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </div>
</section>

<section class="py-5" >
  <div class="container col-xxl-8 px-4">
      <p>When German immigrant Frederick “Fritz” William Rueckheim and his brother Louis concocted an early 
      version of their popcorn, molasses and peanut confection at the 1893 Chicago World’s Fair, they called 
      it simply, “Candied Popcorn and Peanuts.” </p>
      <p>But in 1896 Fritz devised a way to keep the popcorn kernels 
      separated by adding a small quantity of oil to each spinning vat. Prior to this innovation, the product 
      stuck together in chunks. In 1896, the first batch of “Cracker Jack” was made. An enthusiastic customer 
      is said to have coined its household name by exclaiming, “That’s crackerjack!”</p>
      <p>
      When German immigrant Frederick “Fritz” William Rueckheim and his
      brother Louis introduced their popcorn and peanut confection at the
      1893 Chicago World’s Fair, it was initially sold as “Candied Popcorn and
      Peanuts.”
      </p>
      <p>
      In 1896, an innovation in production prevented the popcorn from clumping.
      An enthusiastic customer is said to have exclaimed, “That’s crackerjack!”
      — giving the product its enduring name.
      </p>
      <p>
      Early advertising emphasized novelty and affordability, helping establish
      Cracker Jack as a staple at sporting events.
      </p>
  </div>
</section>

<!-- REFERENCES -->
<section class="py-6" id="references">
  <div class="container col-xxl-8 px-4">
    <h2 class="h4 mb-3">References</h2>
    <ol>
      <li>This is a modified image from 
        <a href="http://collider.com/vintage-gi-joe-hot-wheels-pez/" title="Cracker Jack">
        Collider
        </a>.
      </li>
      <li>Smith, J. (1901). <em>American Confectionery</em>.</li>
      <li>U.S. Patent Office records, 1896.</li>
    </ol>
  </div>
</section>

Commit message:

Editing _stories and _pages files.

_stories/cracker-jack.md, after:

---
# Narrative layer
layout: lead-section
title: "Cracker Jack"
permalink: /cracker-jack/

description: > 
  A mixture of molasses-flavored candy-coated popcorn and peanuts that was sold for the first time at the World's Columbian Exposition in 1893.
image: /assets/img/stories/cracker-jack.jpg
image-alt: 

categories: 
tags:


# Object layer 
id: cracker-jack
name: Cracker Jack
lat: 41.8781
lng: -87.6298
category: food
description: Classic sweet snack associated with fairs and baseball, originated in Chicago.

---

<!-- _layouts/lead-section pulls _includes/lead-section -->

<!-- OVERVIEW -->
<section class="py-5" id="overview">
  <div class="container col-xxl-8 px-4">
    <h2 class="h4 mb-3">Overview</h2>
      <p class="drop-cap">The term crackerjack followed a distinct geographical and cultural path, starting as a British-derived slang expression before becoming a quintessentially American brand and cultural icon.
      </p>
      <p>Cracker Jack is a brand of molasses-flavored, caramel-coated popcorn
      mixed with peanuts, first introduced in the United States in the late
      19th century. It became culturally significant through its association
      with baseball and popular advertising.
    </p>
  </div>
</section>

<!-- Etimology -->
<section class="py-5" id="short-fiction">
  <div class="container col-xxl-8 px-4">
    <h2 class="h4 mb-4">Etimology</h2>
    <div class="row g-4">
      <div class="col-12 col-lg-6">
        <p>Linguistic Origins (16th–18th Century)</p>
          <p>The word 'crackerjack' is a compound of two much older English elements:
          Crack: Rooted in the Middle English crakken (meaning "to resound"), it evolved by the 1700s into an adjective for "expert" or "superior".
          Jack: A common generic term for a man since the mid-1500s (as in "jack-of-all-trades").
          Together, they initially formed a colloquialism describing a person or thing of "marked excellence".</p>
      </div>
      <div class="col-12 col-lg-6">
      </div>
    </div>
  </div>
</section>

<!-- Origin -->
<section class="py-5" id="short-fiction">
  <div class="container col-xxl-8 px-4">
    <h2 class="h4 mb-4">Origin</h2>
    <div class="row g-4">
      <div class="col-12 col-lg-6">
        <p>The phrase was first documented in America appeared in the Midwest and South as horse racing slang. One of the earliest recorded uses of 'crackerjack' as a slang for top-quality horses was in the Cincinnati Enquirer (1882) and the Nashville Tennessean (1887).
        Chicago World's Fair (1893): The transition from slang to brand happened in Chicago. German immigrant Frederick Rueckheim introduced a molasses-coated popcorn and peanut snack at the World's Columbian Exposition. </p>
        <p>Trademark and Cultural Spread (1896–Present)</p>
        <p>Commercialization (1896): The name "Cracker Jack" was officially trademarked in Chicago after a salesman reportedly tasted the snack and exclaimed, "That's a crackerjack!".
        </p>
      </div>
      <div class="col-12 col-lg-6">
      </div>
    </div>
  </div>
</section>

<!-- Short Fiction -->
<section class="py-5" id="short-fiction">
  <div class="container col-xxl-8 px-4">
    <h2 class="h4 mb-4">Short Fiction</h2>
    <div class="row g-4">
      <div class="col-12 col-lg-6">
        <p class="drop-cap">Well, it’s almost summer and I'm in Chicago for the World's Columbian Exposition, the year is 1893. 
        Black Elk, having survived the Wounded Knee Massacre <em>might</em> be here with Buffalo Bill Cody 
        and his Wild West show. Eadweard Muybridge <em>is</em> here to present a series of lectures on the 
        'Science of Animal Locomotion' in the Zoopraxographical Hall. And Scott Joplin is also in town, 
        introducing audiences to his new marches and jigs.</p>
        <p>Today, I'm fashionably dressed with a new grey coat with covered buttons and matching waistcoat, dark trousers, short turnover shirt collar, and a floppy bow tie. I'm heading east down Lake Street 
        with the smell of horse manure hanging heavy in the air. I’m glad it’s not raining.</p>
        <p>I’m making my way to the first elevated railway built in Chicago, nicknamed the 'Alley L'. The 
        South Side 'L' first opened a year ago and they just extended the line, all the way to 63rd street 
        and Jackson Park. And that's where I'm headed this morning.</p>
      </div>
      <div class="col-12 col-lg-6">
        <p>For a nickel, I will board one of the new wooden cars, and get pulled by a steam locomotive for 
        about 6 miles until I reach the south-west entrance of the World's Columbian Exposition. This trip 
        will take about 30 minutes, I have just enough time to flip through my 'Authentic Visitor's Guide' 
        book and decide where to go first.</p>
        <p>I pay the 50 cent admission fee and step out of the terminus station and onto the Fair grounds. 
        I am greeted with an overwhelming cacophony of music, smells, voices and crowds. The sound of the 
        Columbian Chorus or Orchestra drifts in from the lakefront as I try to ignore the smell of the nearby stock pavilions. Large crowds are in front of me. The first site before me is the Administration building. A 55,000 square foot doomed building, all covered in white stucco.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </div>
</section>

<!-- KEY INFORMATION -->
<section class="py-5" id="key-information">
  <div class="container col-xxl-8 px-4">
    <h2 class="h4 mb-4">Related Entries</h2>
    <ul class="list-inline">
      <li class="list-inline-item">
        <a href="/entries/caramel-popcorn/">Link</a>
      </li>
      <li class="list-inline-item">
        <a href="/entries/baseball-concessions/">Link</a>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </div>
</section>

<section class="py-5" >
  <div class="container col-xxl-8 px-4">
      <p>When German immigrant Frederick “Fritz” William Rueckheim and his brother Louis concocted an early 
      version of their popcorn, molasses and peanut confection at the 1893 Chicago World’s Fair, they called 
      it simply, “Candied Popcorn and Peanuts.” </p>
      <p>But in 1896 Fritz devised a way to keep the popcorn kernels 
      separated by adding a small quantity of oil to each spinning vat. Prior to this innovation, the product 
      stuck together in chunks. In 1896, the first batch of “Cracker Jack” was made. An enthusiastic customer 
      is said to have coined its household name by exclaiming, “That’s crackerjack!”</p>
      <p>
      When German immigrant Frederick “Fritz” William Rueckheim and his
      brother Louis introduced their popcorn and peanut confection at the
      1893 Chicago World’s Fair, it was initially sold as “Candied Popcorn and
      Peanuts.”
      </p>
      <p>
      In 1896, an innovation in production prevented the popcorn from clumping.
      An enthusiastic customer is said to have exclaimed, “That’s crackerjack!”
      — giving the product its enduring name.
      </p>
      <p>
      Early advertising emphasized novelty and affordability, helping establish
      Cracker Jack as a staple at sporting events.
      </p>
  </div>
</section>

<!-- REFERENCES -->
<section class="py-6" id="references">
  <div class="container col-xxl-8 px-4">
    <h2 class="h4 mb-3">References</h2>
    <ol>
      <li>This is a modified image from 
        <a href="http://collider.com/vintage-gi-joe-hot-wheels-pez/" title="Cracker Jack">
        Collider
        </a>.
      </li>
      <li>Smith, J. (1901). <em>American Confectionery</em>.</li>
      <li>U.S. Patent Office records, 1896.</li>
    </ol>
  </div>
</section>
